So the filter feature that we have
implemented right now already works great,
but in this video we wanna take it to the next level
by allowing some even more complex queries.
So right now a user can only filter the documents
by setting one key equal to a value, right?
But now, we actually want to also implement
the greater than, the greater or equal than,
the less than, and the less or equal than operators.
So instead of just having equal,
we want to actually be able to, for example,
say duration greater or equal than five,
and not just equal, all right?
And so that makes everything a bit more complex.
Now, before writing any code, I will actually
do the exercise of writing out the query
how it should look like in MongoDB.
So what would the filter object actually look like?
And let's write it here as a comment,
and again, just as an exercise.
So the object would look a bit like this,
so difficulty, start with that one, set to easy,
and then duration; and now remember that when
we want to use an operator, we need to start another object.
And then for the greater or equal than operator
we use it like this, to five, right, remember that?
So this is how we would manually write
the filter object for the query that we just specified.
Now let's actually go back to Postman
so that I can show you a very kind of standard way
of writing a query string including these operators.
And we do it like this, so before the equals sign
we open up the brackets and then in here
we write the operator, so in this case
greater than or equal, and that's it.
And so basically like this, we add a third part
to the key value pair, so we have the key,
the value, and now also the operator.
And we use again these brackets
in order to specify the operator.
So again, that is a standard way
and so let's now actually go ahead
and take a look at the query string that Express gives us
and so just like before, let's actually
log a reg dot query to the console,
log reg dot query, all right.
And so let's take a look what our query object
is gonna look like when we specify
the query string like this.
All right, now the first thing that you notice
is that we get an error here,
but don't worry about that for now.
So what I'm interested here, is this object,
and so let me actually go ahead and copy it here.
All right, so what do you notice here?
Well, what we see here is that the query object
looks almost identical to the filter object
that we wrote manually, the only difference
is that in this one we have the MongoDB operator sign here.
So that's really the only thing that's missing here
in front of this operator name.
Okay, and so the solution for this
is to basically replace all the operators like this
with their correspondent MongoDB operators,
so basically adding this dollar sign here, okay.
So let's now implement that,
and in fact we do it somewhere up here,
let's actually add some more comments here.
So filtering that we did in the last lecture,
now here let's add some advanced filtering,
and so that's the code that we're gonna write now.
Now let's put this code here right at the top, all right.
Then this code here we don't really need
but I still want to keep it here
so let's put it just here at the end.
And then just this code here as a reference
just to make sure that we know what we're doing here.
All right, and so now that we know
what we need to do here, it is actually
just a simple Javascript problem.
And the way I'm solving it is this,
so first I'm gonna convert the object to a string
so query string equals JSON dot stringify of query object,
and so now I can use that query string
to use the replace function on it.
All right, and so what I want to replace now
is the gte with dollar sign gte,
and then also some other operator.
So the ones we want to replace are
greater than or equal, greater than,
less than or equal, and less than,
and there are a couple ways in which we can do it,
but I'm gonna use a regular expression.
And for me personally, regular expressions
are one of the most difficult concepts in Javascript
and actually in general in programming.
So usually when I need to do something like this,
I simply go on Stack Overflow or just Google around
to find the right solution for the problem
that I'm trying to solve, all right.
And so what we want to do now here
is to basically match one of these four words
and then replace it with the same words
but with the dollar sign in front.
And so the regular expression to
find one of these four words goes like this;
so we open up these parenthesis and then we write
the operators, so gte or gt or lte or lt.
And then we also need to add this \b before and after,
and that's because we only want to match these exact words.
So imagine there's a word which has lt in it,
then we of course do not want to match that
we only want to match if it is this exact word,
without any other string around it.
And so this regular expression that I have here
will take care of that, and actually there is
one piece missing and that is this g flag here
which means that it will actually happen multiple times.
So if we have like two or three operators
or even all of them, then it will replace all of them.
And without this g here, it would only
replace the first occurrence, so this one is very important.
Now, what do we actually want to replace it with?
Well, the replace method actually
accepts a callback which is very powerful,
and this callback has as the first argument,
the matched word, or the matched string.
So we can pass match into that callback function
and what we return from this callback is the new string
that will replace the old one, okay?
So let's do a template string here,
and so we want to replace the match
with dollar sign match, okay, so this is here
the part of the template string syntax.
So this here is this match, and then
we want to put the dollar sign in front of that.
And now just to make sure, let's actually log it
to the console and actually want the object back,
so JSON dot parse the query string.
All right, let me just go ahead and clear this here
so that you can see the results a bit better.
So again, we get this error here
and that's of course because MongoDB
cannot really use the query string or
the query object as we have it right now.
And here we have the two results
and you actually see that our result
is the exact same as before and so
something here is clearly not working.
So let's try to figure out what that is.
And here the regular expression looks just fine,
everything looks fine here, ah, but okay,
the problem is that I'm replacing it in the string
but then I'm not saving it anywhere.
And so actually we want to save it back to the query string.
So let's change this here to a let,
so that it can then mutate the data
and so let's say, query string, oh sorry.
So, query string equals the query string replaced,
just like before, so what I was forgetting is simply to
actually save the result here back into the variable.
Let's try that again, and now it's working.
So now we have the dollar sign
in front of the operator, great.
Okay, so it works, let's get rid of these comments here
and now finally, all we have to do is to actually here
not use the query object but just use this.
So JSON.parse query string, and of course
if you do not have any operator in the query string
then everything will work just fine.
It will simply not find any of these four operators there
but that's no problem, it will then
simply not replace anything.
And also let's go ahead and try this out
and it's taking a bit of time but indeed
it came back with three results,
and so let's now check if they're actually correct.
So the duration should be greater or equal than five,
and this one here is duration of five,
this has a duration of nine, which is
greater than or equal than five,
and so it's actually working, the difficulty is still easy
and so what it means is that the code
that we just implemented works just fine.
Perfect, now let's just for the fun of it
add another parameter up there,
so let's filter for the price now as well.
So this one has almost 2000, then 1100, this one has 300.
So let's now filter for prices less than a thousand,
or less than a thousand five hundred.
And price, and now again our brackets,
and we use less than 1500, and all right, send that.
And what do we get here, oh, now we only have two results.
And indeed, the prices here, 397, and here 1197,
and so the one before that was 2000 is now gone.
So we filtered that one out as well
using again the operator that we just implemented.
And we could now filter for all kinds of stuff here
but you get the point, and so yeah,
we implemented our kind of advanced filtering here
at this point, which now even accepts these four operators.
Now in the real world, we would then have to
write some documentation, basically in order to allow
the user to know which kinds of operation
they can do on our API, right?
So again, ideally we would completely document our API,
specifying which requests can be made
using which htp methods, and then also
what kind of filtering or sorting,
or all these features, which of them are available
and how they can use it, right?
Now, in our case we of course will not do that
but again, don't forget that if you're really implementing
an API that is gonna be used by someone else,
then you must really do this kind of documentation.
But anyway, let's now move on to our next video
and implement a sorting functionality.